"It's so important. This trust in confidence is not believing. Not believing, presuming,
'Oh, I just hope so, I think so.' That is not pain, I saw. It is. That is how we investigate,
for example, mind. You always, for example, what we're in the teaching, say, 'Where is mind?'
So what are the answers? Where mind comes from? Where mind is? Where mind when?
Our mind is going. If we analyze, or if we analyze in these three ways, there's nothing we can tell
.
Each time we are completely on the speechless status, 100% the one, we are in the speechless status
Where mind comes from is, maybe, if we heard the first time in our lives,
where mind comes from, somebody says, 'You will think maybe it's a cuckoo, or she is a cuckoo.'
But in reality, there's no answer. That's just a saying. No answer. Speechless.
What in the Zen teaching says the coin, I think? It's the coin. Where mind comes from?
So, thinking of the past, where mind stayed past time. Where yesterday our mind stayed?
Our physical stayed in our home and slept in bed. Where am I?
Where exactly? Where yesterday's mind? Where person's mind? We presume here,
but where? And where is going tomorrow? So, this is what is called, in the teachings,
Sun and Rosam. Coming, going, existing, or place stay. If you think there's no answer,
it's speechless. Then we think of your mind, what is it, any colors, formations.
If you think that way. If you ask that, if it's mind, if there is mind, what color of mind?
Mind. What is this? What formations are? Everything you ask questions. Really,
every ask that question. There is no answer. For that reason, and again in the Gohen Gharber
teaching,
what is it? Mind is not male. Mind is not female. Mind is not trans-gentle. Trans-gentle?
Trans-gentle. Mind is free from the male. Mind is free from the female. Mind is free from the
trans-gentle. Mind is free from the color. Oh, yellow, black, and white, or any other colors.
And it's free. There's nothing we can identify. When you see that, this is when you ask your mind,
and my mind, where has been, where is now, where is future, what is my mind, the color, this and
that thing. We don't have the answer. When you didn't see anything, then what the teaching said,
and you, your own intelligence, our own intelligence proved, validated. Now that's what it is.
Now that is the will, the nature of the mind. That is your will. Now you're going to maintain that.
That maintaining is known as meditation. All that you behold with your own or our own intelligence.
Meditation, if I use another example, meditation is now you are moving forward with that.
What you see, now you're moving forward with confidence, with trust, because you validated
yourself, and the Buddha validated it. And lineage teaching validated, those are known as three
validates, validates of the Buddha, validates of the lineage, and validated by our own intelligence
.
Now, that's it. We don't have to be doubt and hesitated and these and that things.
Now, if you continually take the journey, and just take that journey with joyfully,
with great, great, happy confidence, and with devotion, thanks to the all great,
such as the Buddhas and the great Masters who really, Buddha taught this teaching, and all these
lineage Masters maintained, and the continued effort is completely matured, their mind,
and benefited others, and now we are connected, we can recapture our own, the domain of the true
nature, that which is long time dominated by the false imagination of our own dualities.
How wonderful, how beautiful, thanks grateful, and then follow me back. And with that, then.